Hello.
We are live. Welcome, my friends. You know
what? Day two, right?
Um, we got a good start yesterday to the Emotional Freedom
Challenge, and I've been
really impressed with the way you are
latching onto these principles, sharing your
experience. Thank you for that. And if you haven't yet,
please share. In the Facebook group, share
what's landing for you, and share the challenge.
We can still bring people to the challenge.
Today is day two. We got three days after this.
Um, one person reached out to me and says, "Is it too late?" No, it's
never too late. You're right on schedule.
"But I missed the first day." We miss a lot of
things, right? As we go through life, we miss a
lot of things. Not a big problem. Okay.
So today we're diving in, kind
of picking up from where we left off yesterday.
Uh, I was thinking as I was on my way to the office today to join all
of you good people that, this is my favorite
part. Today is, like, my favorite.
And then I realized, you know what?
I thought that yesterday too, and I'm anticipating that for the other
days. Everything that we're going over
here, these are powerful, proven
principles of positive psychology.
You know, you hear it all the time, "Just think positive," from
those motivational speakers or people who mean
well but don't understand what you've already
learned in this challenge, that there's
operating instructions for the equipment
of your own mind, and when we really
latch on
to what's going on here... And remember, I always said,
you're al- you're always right about how you feel.
How you feel is 100% consistent with the way your mind is doing
this process. When you become aware of
it, it turns into a
powerful tool
for you to use to not only achieve emotional freedom but to share it with
others. And I see some of you doing that in powerful
ways too. That is so exciting. Okay.
Um,
any housekeeping for today? Not really, except share,
okay? Y- what you're thinking matters.
And as you connect with how this challenge is
affecting you, it's going to affect others as well.
I wanted to share one little piece.
I read this this morning. Um, let me find it here.
Giovanni, thank you. I, I responded to your
comment in Facebook. Um, and with your permission, I would...
Well, your permission, you posted it on Facebook.
So, Giovanni says, "Dr. Paul, while
working on day one challenge task," and remember, that's the
gratitude power up, "I am
grateful to the hard times I experienced understanding my
son back at his mid-teenage years because that led
my way to find you." Uh, that touched me when
I heard that, Giovanni, because I wonder sometimes why I do all the hard
things that are required to keep this going, and you reminded
me.
But then, Giovanni, you go on to say, "Your parenting power up teachings
were incredibly helpful to me and my wife in understanding him at that
point." Now listen to this, you guys.
"But thanks to that, I also got to discover and apply your
positivity model in my life, which has been a lifeline
in dealing with so many other difficult circumstances of
my life. Truly grateful for that."
Giovanni, thank you for sharing that.
What really struck me about your share
is that when we invite our brain
to handle our circumstances differently, it's like what
Wayne Dyer said once, that when we change the way
we look at things, the things we look at
change. And it's not that our circumstances
change, it's that our attitude,
do you remember that?
Also known as position relative to those
circumstances. That's what changes, and we get to
take what it is, no matter what it
is, and assume a different position.
That determines our emotional energy and leads us right
into what we get to discuss today. We're going deep
on the creation mode. Are you ready?
Should we jump in? All right. Share your thoughts
as we go. Those of you who are in the VIP room, the chat is
open, the Q&A is open. We're going to get to the questions
specifically during the VIP second hour.
You guys, we still have some seats available for that.
If you go to
theemotionalfreedomchallenge.com.
Remember the, the emotional, there's two E's in there.
Freedomchallenge.com/getvip,
all one word. We still have some seats and you can jump in.
That will give you full access to all of the recordings, plus our
little second hour Q&A session where I have some
special surprise guests that are showing up.
So jump in if you would like to. If not, that's totally fine
too. We honor your journey wherever you are, and that's why we made this
a free experience. Okay. So as a quick review from
yesterday... Here we go. I just
showed you the card too.Um, this is the
cleaner version, but as we went through this remember
emotional freedom is all about achieving
peace
in your mind and heart. This is
peace when we take a positive position or
attitude relative to our circumstance, and it could always be
worse. So that means it's always possible to
choose that positive position or
attitude. This is depression when we take a
negative position relative to our circumstances,
whatever they are. And by the way, I know I mentioned this
yesterday,
but I think it bears repeating. Our circumstances are
neutral.
Remember when I say circumstances are neutral, I don't mean that they're
easy. I don't mean that they're painless.
They might be very painful and difficult.
But neutral means it could always be better, it could always be worse.
Therefore, whatever it is, here we
are permanently between
better and worse.
Permanently. That means we are free to
choose
our position. That is the most profound
thing that I can share with you, and that's why we started there,
because to claim peace in our heart,
in our mind, means we have to take a position
that supports that. And when I say we have to, I just mean in order to
experience peace. As long as we take a
position of negativity toward our current
circumstances or our past... I mean, we can
make peace with our past.
We can make peace with our what it is,
and that's important as we move forward.
Now, go to the top, creation. One
of the promises of this challenge is that you get to have hope
for better things to come.
And what I mean is you can choose it.
Until you see it as a choice, it's not.
Awareness precedes choice.
So as we get into the creation model today, realize that this is the
source of your hope. Now, the other promise I had for you was
confidence.
That's a strategic side effect, and I'll get to that later in the week,
okay? Do not demand from yourself confidence
before you launch into creation of what is
to be. See, that's a mistake that we make often as
humans. We think, "Oh, well, that's gonna be hard.
That's gonna be difficult. I don't feel confident.
Once I feel confident, then I'll
venture." You don't get to feel confident
yet. What's required now is courage.
We'll come back... And commitment, okay?
We'll come back to that. Um,
all right.
Part of my promise to you today before we get to the challenge task for
today
is to
illuminate ... Remember, my job is to illuminate the
obvious.
So cool. And what... Mm, excuse me.
What I'm going to illuminate today
is a process that I discovered
after the lightning strike, okay?
Remember I shared that story with you about going through a bankruptcy, a
professional psychologist beat up in the pit
somewhere. And, and here I was
at the lowest point in my life. Well, I needed to visit that
place
in order to detach from some of the previous beliefs that
I had that were keeping me stuck. And as I came out
of that, I discovered this creation
process, and I believe that this is how everything
is created. Little disclaimer
here. I am a man of faith. Maybe that's an
acknowledgment more than a disclaimer. I am a man of faith.
I believe in a supreme creator.
I share that with you not because I'm here to try to
persuade what you believe. You get to believe whatever you believe.
Most people believe that there is some
creative force behind everything, and
I tend to believe that, and I think this process applies
there as well. So,
before we jump into the six parts, I brought some show and tell.
Can I just share this? This is a stick
that I whittled with my pocket knife.
Now, you see there I've got a little wood spirit.
Um, I, I kind of found him in there. And
as I was sitting around the campfire, I used to be a, a leader for Boy
Scouts. And sitting around campfires, I found that if I
whittled a stick, I could get the boys to sit down
at the campfire and kind of watch what I was doing.
And it was easiest to do that if I started doing weird things
in the stick. So you see in this portion
I've created... I don't even know what that is.
I just
whittled it out with my stick. And then I thought, "I wonder if I can make
pieces move." And sure enough, there's a little slide in this
part of the stick. It moves up and down. The slide doesn't come out.
It's locked in there, but it moves. Kinda cool.
And then
I figured out how to stretch a stick and make it very flexible
by putting a chain
right in the middle of the stick. And then this is one of my favorite
things.Um, it's a little cage that has a couple of
b***s rolling around inside. Carved that out with my pocket
knife. Yeah, kind of fun, huh? Um, and
then I have a little space left, so I put a couple of rings on a post there
that are free to move. And
I know. You're thinking, "Okay, Dr.
Paul, you got way too much time on your hands." And you're
not wrong about that. Um,
I don't have too much time on my hands.
I chose to spend some of my time doing this, and I already
told you why. I'm a creator at heart.
All of us are. Creation is something we
do. It's in our divine design. You'll remember that
when we, when I introduced these two processes to you.
Evaluation, you can't turn off. Guess
what? You can't turn off creation either.
You have to create something. It's in
your DNA. It's, it's who we are as humans.
We're creators. Okay? You have to create something.
The only question is, okay, what are we gonna create?
All right. So that's part of why I did this, but the other part was I had a
purpose behind its creation. That's gonna make sense when I get
into the six steps. My purpose
was to draw the boys to the campfire so that we
could have principle-based discussions about how to create and live a life that
they love,
'cause I thought that was my job as a Scout leader, to help them
connect to these timeless principles. Well, guess what?
When I'm carving stuff like this, I've got an
audience.
So, so you can see there's a little method to my madness.
People ask me, "How long did that take you?" Eight
years.
Eight years. Not eight years, you know, nonstop.
Eight years of Scout camps,
and that's what I came up with. So I wanted to share that with
you. Um,
let's go to the process. And to
start that off... Where's my markers?
I like to symbolize this. You remember my, my chapter, first
chapter in my book is called Lightning Strikes,
and so I'm going to use a lightning bolt here
as a symbol
for our first step in creation,
and it's called
discontent.
Let's talk about that word for just a minute.
You'll remember, some reference yesterday to pain
and how
our tradition, our culture tells us pain is bad.
Pain is not bad. Pain is essential.
Pain is part of what we have to have to
survive. So pain is not
bad, neither is discontent. And pain is a
form of discontent, but it doesn't have to be pain.
It could be looking at a stick and
thinking, "Oh." See if I show you just this little split portion of my
stick. "Oh, it could be better than that." Yeah, it
could. Okay? That's discontent. If you, if you're an artist
and you look at a blank canvas, you're gonna feel a little
discontent, a little draw, a little
pull, a little nudge towards something.
Or you can look around your house and you'll see something that's broken
or out of place. Guess what you'll feel?
Discontent. There's a reason for
that. So discontent
is the first step of every creation
project.
I know I'm saying that in a very inclus- all-inclusive way, every creation
pro- I think it is. I think without
discontent, there's no reason to create
anything. It's kind of like when we say
necessity is the mother of invention.
Well, I'm thinking discontent is the father of creation.
I mean, it, it, it's something that has to happen first.
It's the impetus. It's the putting into
motion.
Um, let me pause there for a minute because I'm kind of a science geek
and I think about Newtonian physics. I know, weird.
The laws of thermodynamics in Newtonian physics,
one of them is inertia,
and inertia means that bodies at rest tend to stay at rest and bodies in motion
tend to stay in motion until some other force acts on them.
We stay at rest until some force acts on us.
This is it. This is the energy, the creative zap
that gets us going.
Um, quick story about this. I was in the airport
in Nashville. I'd just finished a big event in
Nashville, with the National Speakers Association, and
one of my fellow speakers, Ernie Harker, he's
known as Ern Burne, he's the branding
specialist. And he, he and I were on the same
flight from Nashville back to Salt Lake City, and we're sitting there in the gate
area, and, and Ern comes up to me and he says,
"Dr. Paul, I'm glad I've got a few minutes with a
psychologist." And I'm like, "Oh, boy. Here it comes." Right?
Um, I had given him a copy of my book earlier, and he said, "I f- I learned
something in that book," and it was turning on lights for
him. Here's the context around that.
He and his wife had been having some conversations
about, "Why am I never happy?"
Okay, interesting way to frame that, right?
"Why am I never happy?"
And he said, "I've, I've got a great life.
I've got a supportive, smoking hot wife.
I've got great kids. My business is going
well. Why am I never happy?"And she
was kind of in the same place. "Yeah, why are you never happy?
It's never good enough for you."
What he realized when he read my book about discontent
is that he's, he's not depressed,
he's a creator.
Let that sit for a minute. You're not
depressed, you're a creator. It's not that you're
unhappy, it's that you're a
creator. This changed something in his mind.
Notice
he, his feeling was still there, the feeling of
discontent. But what changed was his
position, also known as attitude, toward that
discontent as he realized, "Oh, I'm a
creator.
I'm going to feel discontent on a
regular basis." When we're
in the model, okay, discontent
is when we take what it is
and we compare it to what it could be, and we feel
like, "Okay, I wanna move that direction.
I wanna bring that up." But then we slip right back down into
evaluation mode, and we say, "But it's not that, so what I have
sucks." No, it doesn't. What you have rocks, especially
compared to something worse. We take this energy to the creation
mode. We use our discontent.
Instead of curling up in fetal position in the corner, we
use our discontent
to kickstart us
into a creation path. You remember I
shared the story about Mary Louise Zeller and how she kickstarted me.
Uh, I felt some discontent,
and I launched on a creation project
that allowed you and me to be in this room together
today. Had I not felt that discontent, we wouldn't be
here. I don't know where you'd be. I have some guesses of where
I would.
So grateful for the discontent in my
life. All right. Connect
for a minute with where your discontent is,
and understanding how to operate the equipment.
What if instead of allowing our discontent to prove to us
that our life sucks because it's not better,
what if we used that as the kickstart to get into creation
mode? What would change for you if you could do
that? Let's
choose our attitude
on purpose, and you're going to experience discontent.
I love the way Tim Hansel put that, this, in h- in his book.
It's called, You Gotta Keep Dancing.
Tim Hansel said this: "Pain
is inevitable.
Misery is optional."
Love that. And i- and what determines that is what
position we take relative to our discontent.
We're going to feel pain, okay? It is what it is.
How are we going to evaluate or judge our pain?
Are we gonna say, "Well, I shouldn't be feeling this. I should be feeling better"?
Or are we gonna say, "Oh, oh, hmm.
That's my creative kick.
That's my jumpstart"?
Kind of cool, huh? All right. Discontent,
first step. After feeling discontent, we move on to
the next step
in this creation process. What did I do with my marker? Here it is.
And this step, this is an interesting one that we're going
to get into more detail tomorrow. I promise we're doing a deep
dive on this one tomorrow. It's called
The Choice. Let's just label it up
here.
The Choice.
Every time we feel discontent, we have to
make the choice whether we do it consciously
or subconsciously. Whether we do it on purpose
or we default to our programming, we will make
this choice,
and the choice is between two distinct
paradigms. You'll notice I've drawn a pair of eyeglasses here, and
for me, this symbolizes what the choice is all
about. It's our paradigm. I'll put that
word right in here.
Again, a s- a fancy psychological word
that basically means the way you see things.
So if we
consider this to be a pair of eyeglasses,
you put on a pair of eyeglasses... You see I'm wearing mine today.
I've, uh... It, it's been less than a year since I started wearing
glasses. I know.
#mytwinsisterturnsixtythisyear .
It happens. And the... When I wear these, it
changes the way I view the world. It
alters the signal so that I prefer the way I
see with them. Let's put it that way.
We'll get into this more tomorrow, but what those two
paradigms are for purposes of getting into the creation
process, there's the victim
and there's the agent.
Without, you know, getting into everything that we'll cover
tomorrow, the victim paradigm, I'm not talking about a
victim of abuse or a victim of crime.
I'm talking about a victim way of seeing
things.And when we see
things as a victim, meaning we blame.
Do you remember when I was stuck in the muck and I was blaming
the economy, I was blaming my business partner, I was
blaming the insurance companies, I was blaming those
guys that I invested with? Blame, blame, blame. It's not my fault. Uh.
See, that's a victim paradigm. And it's all over
the place. Watch the news. It's almost like the most important question is
who's to blame for this. How is that even
useful? It's not because when we
choose
a victim paradigm, a
victim way of seeing our circumstances, a victim
attitude or position relative to our what it
is,
there is a predictable outcome, and that predictable
outcome is captivity.
Most of the time that shows up in my career as, "Oh, Doc,
I feel so stuck." Okay, that word
stuck
is a clue, and it's not that you
are trapped or stuck. Well, you are kind of, you're in captivity, but
it's not from your circumstance, it's from the way you're
thinking about it. And again, we'll jump into that
tomorrow. This is a powerful stage because
when we choose the victim paradigm,
we go right back
to our discontent. I don't need to pull the,
the page back up. We go right back to our
discontent. We recycle our
discontent,
and we get trapped in that, and it can go on for years.
So
th- again, we'll, we'll dive into that a little deeper tomorrow.
What if we choose the agent paradigm?
And in the agent paradigm, we stop blaming.
That kickstart
changed my choice. I didn't even know I was choosing
victimhood when Mary Louise Zeller told me,
"Paul, the troops are not
coming. We are the
troops."
See, what changed for me is shifting from victim to agent,
and my thinking was then, "Oh, oh,
it's me. My hands are on the wheel. What do I get to do next?"
When we choose agent,
we get to move on to the next step, and this is good news because
instead of spinning out in, in
discontent, we get to move on to
the next step,
and this is not an easy one.
This, my friends, is a question
mark,
and that's what the step is, the
question.
Now, in victim mode, we don't even ask the question because we're too
busy blaming. We're too busy pointing to our
circumstances or that evil person who abused us or
our-- the, the way the economy took our feet out from
under us. Whatever it is, we're, we're bu-- too busy blaming, and we don't ever
even get to the question. That's why the choice is
essential to move forward with creation.
So when we get to the question, the question
is, if not this,
then what?
Notice that's not easy
because now you have to turn your brain on.
See, in victim mode, you don't need your
brain. When, when you say, "I
can't," and then you point to the reason why you
can't, what's the next step after that?
I mean, besides complaining. There is no next
step. We are trapped there. We are stuck.
We are captive.
When we choose the agent, that's when we move into the
freedom of creating what is to be, but we can't do that until we ask this
question. If not this, then
what? What is it gonna
be? Once we answer that
question, we put that
question into
the cloud. All right, so I'm drawing a cloud here.
Here's the answer to our question.
X represents however we answer the if not this,
then what question. Well, then this.
Let's try this. This is called
the plan.
When I say this isn't
easy, it's so much easier to just plop down
and point to whatever we think is responsible for our
circumstance than it is to think it through in a way
that allows us to answer the if not this, then what question.
But once we answer that, we still have an issue.
L-let me give you an example of this.
Um, when Vicki and I moved into our home,
the first words out of Vicki's mouth, "I
hate this floor." Okay, it was one of those old
c****y vinyl floors that's, you know, curling up on the edges.
It never looks clean, no matter how much you scrub it.
It's got scuff marks everywhere. That's what we walked into
in our kitchen area. "I hate this floor."
Now, I, I didn't care as much about the floor, but to watch my
wife saying, "I hate this floor," that caused some discontent for
me.Okay, so we've got our discontent
Check. Done. Move to the next step
The choice
We chose for almost a decade I know,
I'm embarrassed to even admit that We chose for almost a
decade to just recycle our discontent
because we kept telling ourselves, like, "We can't afford
it." We were just brand new in, in my
practice, well, in Vicki's career too.
She had finished her master's degree in speech language pathology.
I was still wrapping up my supervision hours to become a
psychologist. We didn't have a lot of money, but our story was,
our, our finger-pointing was to, "We can't afford it.
We don't have enough money." That's a victim
statement, and I'm not arguing with the math.
I'm saying you can say, "I can't," which is victim, or, "How can
I?" which is agent.
How does that sound different to you?
I can't afford it. How can I afford
it?
One turns your brain off. The other one turns your brain on,
and it's not easy to answer that because you gotta come up with some
plan. We, we told ourselves, "Well,
I don't know what we would ever do about it.
Uh, well, we're probably just supposed to put up with the condition of the
house the way we bought it." I mean, we had all these victim stories.
We did that for about 10 years.
Finally,
the discontent got to the point, and the awareness, okay,
because awareness precedes choice, and we realized, you know
what? We could do something about this.
All right. Now th- just check in with that.
When you realize,
I could do something about this, it's a huge
burden because then you have to ask this: Well,
what? What are we gonna do? And we had to think through, okay,
well, if not this old c****y vinyl, then what?
And we decided hardwood. Yes, that would be
nice. But that wasn't enough either.
We had to figure out, okay, what kind of hardwood?
Are we gonna do engineered or laminates or d- and, and what color
is it gonna be in? Where is it gonna start, and where is it gonna end, and how are
we going to pay for it? See, this is all part of the
plan, and what's really cool is
when you get clear about your answer to what if, and you get
that made in the cloud.
We got clear about how, and all
the stuff
showed up at my house.
I, I had to help it with my Nissan Titan and my
Home Depot card, okay, but the point is my floor
already existed in raw materials sitting on shelves at Home
Depot.
It already existed. It was waiting for me to get
clear,
and when I got clear, all of the stuff
came to my house.
All right. You probably know what step is next.
There was a movie that came out years ago called The
Secret. It's based on a book by Rhonda Byrne, and
they skipped
this piece.
If some of you have read or seen that, you'll know what I'm
talking about. Okay. Here's what...
where we're going here.
Hey, not bad for a psychologist, huh?
The work.
Now, remember, I'm a little bit of a science geek.
Work for me is defined as a physical
law. Matter cannot be created
or destroyed. It only changes
form, and the forces by which matter changes
form can be defined as work. In other words, we're going to put
our hands and our tools
on the raw elements that already exist in our world,
and we're gonna move them around to match
the picture in our head. You remember the cloud from the last step?
That's what the work is. You know, some people have asked me, "All
right, Dr. Paul, that wood carving is a little
weird." And I've got another one. Yeah, here it is.
I made a little chain
just recently, a couple months ago, and part of it was so that I could
demonstrate this principle. W- and somebody
asked me, "How did you do that?"
Thank you. Thank you for humoring me. How did I do this?
Simple. I cut off
everything that doesn't look like
this.
Oh, that's helpful. Actually, it is.
What I started with
was this.
Do you see this? This is an exact
copy of the block of wood that I started with.
I had to... in order to create this, I
had to see it in here. You
with me? I had to envision this
in there,
and that's the hardest part. Can you see that chain in
there?
Well, with a little practice and some mentoring and the right skills and
instructions, yeah, you could do it too.
I had to see it in there, and then the work part, I
mentioned tools, okay? And just think through for a minute
what your creation project gets to be.Are you building a
business? Are you saving a relationship?
Are you teaching and mentoring others, including children
in your own home? What is your project?
What are you working on? I wanted to do this in a way that
didn't injure me,
so I wore a glove.
Okay? So what does the glove represent for you?
What kind of safety guidelines are you going to follow to
minimize your risk? Because when you get to the work
part,
it can get a little dicey out there, have you noticed?
So the glove represents that to me.
I needed some tools, and for most of my wood carving
up until Christmas when my wife gave me
a wood whittling kit that had some specialized tools in
it, I usually just used my pocket knife.
This knife can represent my pocket knife, okay?
Because that is a very similar blade to what I've carved that whole stick
with that I showed you earlier. You have to have the tools.
What are the tools you need? You
know, one of the little projects I made was
this, this cute little spoon. Well, guess
what? That part is hard to carve with this knife, so
sometimes you're gonna need some specialty tools
that will allow you to get into tight places, especially if you want to carve
a chain or something with moving parts.
What are your tools? What tools will you need?
Um,
I had some instructions
that, that guide me through some of the details of
how you actually move the tools around on
the raw materials. Is this making sense to you?
Your, your project is no different from mine.
You may not be trying to make one of these,
but the process is exactly the same. You gotta see it in there.
You gotta cut off everything that doesn't look like that, and sometimes you get to
go get other materials and add it to whatever you're
making. Um, you move the elements
around. And this is kind of fun, too.
Look at this. I saved everything I
cut off
from this. So this
minus all that,
and minus all that had to happen through the work,
equals this.
Crazy, huh? All right. I hope
that that's clicking a little somewhere for you.
If we skip the work, we don't get
to the last step.
And I mentioned The Secret earlier.
The, the whole c-crux of The Secret was to get really
clear about the plan,
okay, with a little bit, a little bit on the
question and the choice, but it kind of left it at the
plan and skipped forward to the last step.
You have to do the work. It's a physical
law of the universe.
Stuff doesn't just happen. You gotta go put your hands on the
elements. And then
here's our last step. I
call this one the
manifestation.
The manifestation. That's when...
Do you remember the X was in the cloud before? It was only a thought.
It existed here. This is where a thought
becomes a thing,
and you can actually show it
to other people. A thought becomes a thing.
It manifests in the real world.
That, my friends, is the six-part creation process.
Let me put up the whole,
the whole process for you here so that you can see it all
together.
Let's see. Can you see that? Yes. Okay, so we've got
discontent, the choice,
the question,
the plan, the
work, and the manifestation.
Before we get to our challenge test today, I need to give you a
couple of warnings
and acknowledgments. All right? First of all, it can be
dangerous out there, so find a way to manage the
risk. Um, risk, there's three things
that we can do with risk. Are you raising
kids? That's risky.
Are you starting a business? Risky.
Are you launching into a relationship?
Risky.
Everything's risky out... This is a dangerous place.
Welcome to the planet. There are three things that
we can do with risk. Number...
Well, actually, let's, let's put this
into a concrete example so that you can see it.
Right across the street here from my office, there's a big street
right here called State Street in Orem,
and my office is situated between two major
universities, Brigham Young University, my alma mater, on
that side, and Utah Valley University, which
is the largest university in this state now, on that side.
That means there's a lot of student drivers, I mean, drivers
who are students,
between those two universities, and they're, they're only separated by about five
miles. Okay? So we've got a lot of traffic in
this area. State Street is like-Eight
lanes, two different directions, lot of
traffic. What if I want lunch
over there at Blaze Pizza, one of my favorite lunch places
right over there? And they did not sponsor this event, by the
way, but I have no problem giving props to people I
like. Blaze Pizza right across the
street.
What is the problem?
It's risky,
and I could get clobbered out there.
All right, so there's three things we can do with the risk.
Number one,
we can ignore it,
and ignoring it means that I put on my blinders,
close my eyes, hope for the best,
and head out across the street. What's gonna
happen?
Probably I'm gonna get clobbered, and I won't get
lunch, but I might end up
dead, right? It's risky.
Ignoring risk. Put this in your notes
somewhere. Ignoring risk
increases danger. You can
see that in this example. Okay, what's another option?
We can avoid the risk,
and by that I mean, "Oh,
too dangerous.
I'm not going." Okay? And I sit down, I
plop down on this side of the street.
Is that safer?
Yeah, arguably. I mean, you're not a hundred percent safe on the
sidewalks.
I've seen the news stories, and we do have a lot of drivers who are
students. You're not a hundred percent safe, but
arguably safer than crossing the street.
What's the downside? You don't get lunch.
You don't get lunch. That beautiful thing that you feel
inspired to create in this world, not gonna happen
if you completely avoid the risk. What's the
third problem? Or the third option, excuse
me. It's to manage the risk. So
in this option, we're gonna take a little walk about a
block that-a-way. We're gonna come to
a s- a signal, to a big signal where there's a
button. We're gonna push the button, we're gonna wait
until the lights change and we get the little walking man
sym-symbol out there on the other side. Right?
You know the one, and we're looking across. Okay?
Now, it's perfectly safe, right?
Wrong, and I am still gonna look both
ways
because not everybody follows the traffic...
I got hit
in my truck
by one of these students going forty miles an hour through a red
light. Okay? Totaled my Toyota Tacoma
just like that. What could I be grateful for in
that?
I got a really nice Nissan Frontier now, and I like it a lot better than the
Toyota. Okay, it is what it is.
Circumstances are neutral. But ba-- See, I get
distracted. I c- I pop back into what we've already covered.
Back to managing the risk. You take
appropriate steps to reduce the
risk to as close to zero as
possible
and still cross the street.
Okay? So this maximizes the potential of
doing it safely
and, gives me the best chance at
getting what it is that I'm setting out to create. Okay?
So I still get lunch. I can hopefully do it safely.
Hopefully. Nothing is a hundred percent risk-free,
folks. What if I just stay in my house? Yeah, you can die there too.
Most people die in bed. Just
saying. Sorry. And nobody gets out of this
alive. Welcome to the planet.
There is risk, so choose. Are you going to ignore
it? Are you going to avoid it?
Are you going to manage it? And I like that third one.
You know, you'll be reminded of this as soon as you get into a car,
and if you're like me, you climb into your car, and the
first thing you do
is you click it, right? Click it or ticket in
some states. You click your seatbelt. Why?
Well, because it's the law. Yeah, and why would we wear a seatbelt?
Did you know that seatbelts do not prevent
accidents?
In fact, the whole reason we even have them is because we do have
accidents,
and that is managing the risk.
It's accepting the risk, too. Just think about it.
That movement is your way of saying, "I get it.
There's a risk, and I accept this
level of risk. Let's go." Because you
can choose not to drive anywhere. Would that be safer?
Yeah. What's the downside? All
right. There you go. Now, it's gonna be risky.
Now, I, I promised you a disclaimer, and then we're gonna get to the challenge task
right after this. This
is not
a linear process. I know I've drawn it all in a
line, and I think it does progress in this
progression.
When we, when we create something, it has to go through all of these
steps. But usually what happens? You're gonna see this.
Think about your experience. You'll, you'll see this from your
experience. You feel the
discontent.You spin out in that
recycling the discontent victim mode as long as you can't
get past the choice of victim or agent.
You do that for a while. Vicki and I did it for ten years about our
floor. And then you finally make an
agent choice. Okay, how can I? What can I do?
What's possible here? Let's move forward.
Question. If not this, then what? Oh, I
can't think of anything. Back to discontent.
See, and you reboot it. Maybe you don't stay there as long.
It's like, no, I can do something about this. What?
Come on, think, think. Talk to somebody. Get some ideas.
Use ChatGPT for Pete's sake. We got tools
nowadays. And you come up with an answer.
Okay. If not that, then
this. All right.
How are we going to do that?
See, just answering the question isn't enough.
Then you put it in the cloud.
Let's pause here for just a minute because this
is where true creation happens. Everything
up until this point is prep. This is where it's
created. And I say that acknowledging it doesn't exist in
the real world yet.
But check it out. Who gets paid
more? An architect
or a guy who swings the
hammer?
This is where it's created. The architect has to create
it. Whoever's swinging the hammer
follows a blueprint that was provided by the
architect. This is where the creation
happens. It has to be created here. You look around your room.
Wherever you're sitting right now, maybe you're in your car, I don't know.
Look around. Everything you see that was
created
had to be created here first. Nothing poops into
existence. It has to be thunk first.
And even this computer that I'm talking to and the light here behind
my computer,
somebody had to think it up. This marker, this knife that I showed
you, somebody thought it up
first.
So pause on that step for a minute and realize that your creative power
lies in your mind.
Not in your hands necessarily.
In your mind.
And whatever's causing your discontent, there's a reason why you're
having the
discontent. I
had this conversation with one of our positivity
practitioners recently talking about her
experience that included so much pain and
difficulty. And I think the lights went on for her
as she realized, oh, part of the reason for that is to put me in
position to create something that is now going to solve problems
for other people.
And this isn't something she would have signed up for.
Usually our painful, difficult circumstances we wouldn't
sign up for, but we can find gratitude for them
and use those to go create
something.
You're going to run into trouble here too because you won't be
able to figure it out. You can't see any way that you're going to do it.
And then boom, you're back to discontent, right?
You might get clear to the work stage.
I know with our floor,
I had envisioned in my mind, in my cloud, I had envisioned
this smooth hardwood floor. And we're not going to
stop in the kitchen. We're going to continue it down the hall and we're going to
move it out into this area of our family room to create a little dining
area that's on the hardwood as well, okay?
So I had all this in my mind. Well, we start ripping up the old
floor. And by the way, you're going to notice in any creation
project, including relationships, that
occasionally demo day is the first part of the actual
physical work. And it looks worse than it did before.
As soon as we ripped up that floor, it was worse than the old
vinyl.
No surprises, okay? Sometimes it looks worse before it looks
better. You've got to keep that image in your mind of what you're
creating in order to get through the messes that are
inevitable. Pain is inevitable.
Misery is optional. Messes are inevitable,
okay? But permanent disruption is
not.
We got to that point in the work. And as we tore up the floor,
I realized that the dining room area that I had planned, that I had envisioned
so smoothly transitioning from the kitchen was about
that much higher
than the kitchen floor, okay?
Meaning there's going to be a tripping point here.
It used to be carpet in there.
Boom, right back to discontent.
Now, after demo day, what if I just sit down and say, well, there's nothing I
can do.
Go into victim mode, start licking my wounds.
And sometimes we do for a while. I gave you permission yesterday
to feel whatever you're going to feel like you need my permission, okay?
You're always right about how you feel.
But how long do I want to stay in that victim loop over here of
recycling discontent? And I had to move through this again and say,
okay, well, if not this, then what? Then a smooth floor. Well, how can I do that?
I don't know. I had to talk to some people. I had to consult.
I had to find people who weren't psychologists who knew about
floors.
And I found a solution that required a little extra
work. And eventually that floor showed
up in our home. And it didn't just magically appear there.
Neither will your.Floor.
Whatever your floor is, whatever your wooden chain
is. All right. Let's get
to the challenge task.
And this one is called... Here, let's put
this back up
because I don't wanna write it on that one.
This one is called BB8.
Now, some of you, if you are a Star Wars fan, you
might be thinking... Here, we'll put it on the manifestation page.
You might be thinking about a droid
named BB-8.
You don't get a droid, I'm sorry. But we're going to use that droid's
name to remind us of the challenge task.
Eight, it stands for eight clock. So I want you to look at your clock right now.
Mine says ten fifty-five.
What does yours say? All right. How sure are you
that eight o'clock
is coming?
Okay, pretty sure. How sure are you that
eight o- that you're gonna be around for eight
o'clock?
Why do people hedge on this one? It's like,
"Well, probably." You've made it to every
eight o'clock so far your whole life.
Probably, you're gonna be around for eight o'clock. I agree.
You're going to be there. Now, there's
only two possibilities. I used to think there were three.
I eliminated the third one 'cause I don't think
that things could be exactly the same at eight o'clock as they are
right now.
At the very least, you're gonna be hours older.
You might be more hungry. You might be more tired.
I don't know, it depends on what you did just before
8:00.
So
I don't think exactly the same as an option.
Things have to be by your own
evaluation, which you can't turn off, things have
to be either
better
or
worse
at eight o'clock. Do you remember yesterday when I
challenged you to come up with some ideas of how to make your life
worse in the next ten minutes? You
could. And that's good news, 'cause if you can make a
mess, you can make. Now we get to get clear
about our attitude, our position relative to what we're gonna go
make. So better and worse
are your only two options by your own judgment
'cause exactly the same isn't even possible. You with me?
Let's get clear about our attitude or position, which direction you wanna go.
Oh, don't even have to think about it. You would like an upgrade.
Okay. Now, ask your brilliant mind
to come up with something that you can do.
This is kind of like going back to the question part, okay?
That question mark.
Something that you could do... In fact, let's go back to that
page. I think that's more helpful.
If not this, then what? Okay, ask your brain, and
just look for some area of discontent. It'll be easy to find.
Remember, let's be agents about this and, and pick something.
What could I do? How would I do it? And then do it by
8:00.
BB8 stands for better by eight.
And you can pick something big, something small, I don't care. You're the creator.
Choose. Choose something that you could do
to improve
some aspect of your life. You could do this with your
health. What could you do? Ask your brain right now.
What could you do? Uh, your finances, what could you do?
And I'm not talking next week, next month, next year.
Eight o'clock. Eight o'clock. What could you
do? Find something. Your relationships,
your key relationship, your spirituality.
What if you simply chose to do yesterday's challenge task
in the gratitude power up? That would improve things by eight.
You pick something.
I'm not gonna tell you what to pick. That's up to you.
You're the creator. We have four days left in
this challenge, including today.
So you get to start today on better
by eight. If you will do that for four days,
better by eight
gives you eight
upgrades to your life by the end of
this challenge. How cool is
that? What you just experienced,
even thinking about it, is a little sample
of an emotional energy that we call
hope.
I promised you hope for better things to
come. You've got something to do with it.
Better by eight gives you eight
upgrades
over the next four days. Who's in? Will you do it?
Come back tomorrow. On day three,
we're diving into that choice, and I'm going to share some of the
psychology behind how to do
that choice more consistently in every aspect of
your life. I will look forward to seeing you then.
Those folks who are in the VIP room, stick around, and we will
be right back to the VIP Q&A session.
Everybody on Facebook, we'll see you again tomorrow. Thank you for being here.
Share your experience on the Facebook group, okay?
Hope to hear from you there. We'll see you then.
All right. VIPs, we're gonna stop this
recording.